Making a Stevenson screen

The weatherino should live somewhere about 1m .. 1.5m above ground level, in an
enclosure that exposes it to ambient temperature, and not the sun.

The classic way to do this is a Stevenson screen - with double white timber
louvres on each side to manage airflow.
Open bottom, layered, insulated roof. Vent at top.

I made one like this. Its probably complete overkill, but was cheap.

See the photos.

step

1.  Weld together a basic steel frame from 25mm steel square tube. Mine was about 410mm wide x  340 mm high.
Keep the welds on the inside so the outer surfact is reasonably flat.

2. Make a second side, then turn it into a basic frame. Mine is 410 x 410mm.
   Add some lugs at the bottom for mounting.
   Add some supports on the top for a lid.
   Add a bar across the middle, mayb e1/3 of the way up to mount the weatherino_temperature.
   Paint with a rust protecting expoxy paint.

3. Aquire some timber louvres. You can make them if you are skilled.
   I bought some nice old western red cedar doors off GumTree (An Australian Craigslist). wash them down to get off the dust, wipe with turps to remove any oil.
   You will need 8 sides to match the frame.
   There need to be 2 layers of crossed louvres on each side.   
   Cut the louvre source up as needed and paint white.

4. Drive in some fence pickets with a dolly and bolt the frame to it.

5. Add a Lid. Mine was a piece of waterproof plywood, painted white. Probably 12mm ply, although 18mm (3/4) would be fine too.  

6. Add a second layer lid to insulate from the sun. more plywood, painted white, spaced off the inner lid by a finger (more ply)

7. Add the weatherino to the bar in the middle. Cable ties are more than adequate.

8. Screw 4 timber sides around the frame. This is the first layer of louvres.
   I drilled and tapped the metal frame for M4 stainless screws.
   The 25mm square tube was a bit thick for self tappers..
   Note the inner layer of louvres should be crossed to the outer layer, so
   these are mounted backwards... in that water would flow in.
   I didn't bother with an opening side, the weatherino can be accessed
   from below.

9. Screw a second layer of louvres over the inner layer.
   Notice this layer is crossed to the inner layer, so appears to be
   mounted correctly. ie rain doesn't flow inside.

10. Add some polycarbonate roof sheeting to the top as a roof. Slope it so the
    rain runs off.
    Glue a 6V solar cell to one side. I used the eastern wall, as that
    direction had a clear view to the sun in the morning.
    The Northern wall is covered by a dwelling a few metres away, that shades
    the Stevenson screen in winter (yes, I'm in the Southern hemisphere)

This has been in place for nearly 3 years now and works well. I don't see any apparent temperature discontinuities as the sun rises and hits the screen. Previos boxes had real issues that way.

